[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In January of 1996, North
American Aerospace Defense
Command, NORAD, warns Brazilian
authorities their radar has
picked up UFO activity
near Varginha, Brazil.
By January 20th, news
coverage across the globe
explodes with stories
of a UFO crash.
Strange creatures are reported
by military and civilians
in the town of Varginha.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Varginha is a Brazilian city
located in the southern region
of the state of Minas Geraes.
Varginha is considered the
seventh best city in Brazil
to live and invest, and became
known internationally in 1996
for the alleged appearance
of alien creatures.
The episode that became known
as the Varginha incident.
This following story is
based on truth and lies.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> If true, call it another
Roswell if you will.
That is a crashed vehicle that
had beings on board apparently.
>> Can she say what feeling
she got from the creature?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The Varginha case is
considered the most well kept
secret in the military
circles of Brazil.
[RADIO CHATTER]
>> We're in Sao Paulo, Brazil,
about to go and investigate
the infamous 1996
Varginha UFO incident.
It's an alleged crash
and reported bodies.
So we're going to go see--
oh, OK.
No problem.
>> Please.
>> Oh, yes.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm basically trying to
figure out what took place
in Varginha, Brazil,
January 1996.
Many people say there
was a UFO crash,
debris and bodies recovered.
My objective here in Brazil is
to find out, put some clarity
on what happened, and where
this debris ultimately ended up.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> I want to hear from her.
>> James Fox teams up
with Brazilian researcher,
Marco Leal, who has been
investigating the Varginha case
since 2006.
Together, they meet
Cinthya Covo in Sao Paulo
to go over the case.
>> This is the daughter of
one of the most famous UFO
researchers in all of Brazil.
And he is no longer with us.
>> Yes.
>> So she has brought some of
his research, illustrations,
documentation from the
1996 Varginha UFO incident.
An unidentified flying
object apparently crashes.
And then you have beings
associated with the craft alive
and walking through the town.
It sounds so spectacular.
It sounds so unbelievable.
It's hard to wrap
your mind around it.
And I didn't believe it
when I first heard about it.
>> This is the design.
The girl drew this
for her father.
That's her father.
>> Yeah.
>> They were in the
fighter man station.
>> So this is a fireman?
They believe this fireman
was involved in the capture?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> And they saw a UFO that
looked like it was definitely
going to crash,
Liliane and Valquiria,
right after they
saw the creature?
>> Yes.
>> Marco Cherisie, who captured
the creature with his bare
hands and later died.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> This is an original artist's
rendition of what the girls
saw.
Wow.
Look at that.
Brazil is one of the most
amazing locations on Earth.
I mean, you've got
Ubatuba in the '50s.
You've got Colares,
Operation Plateau.
You've got 1986, UFOs over
Brazil with Sao Paulo.
It was amazing.
I met with a radar operator.
And then you have this
crash in 1996 in Varginha.
These are some of the
best cases in the world.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> 1957, witnesses observe an
object descending at extreme
speed from the skies
Toninhas beach.
Before hitting the
water, it explodes.
Fragments collected on the
beach are sent to a lab
to be analyzed.
This headline reads,
"Scientific analysis confirms.
Extraterrestrial magnesium
from the alleged Ubatuba flying
saucer."
Photographer Almiro
Barauna and the crew
aboard a Brazilian
Navy vessel witness
a disk-shaped object
maneuvering over the ocean.
He grabs his camera
and takes these shots.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Previously classified
Brazilian Air Force documents
contain accounts of several
UFOs witnessed by both civilians
and military personnel.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Shown here are several
unknown craft captured
on camera by the
Brazilian Air Force.
Some officers even
claimed to see occupants.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> 1986 over Sao Paulo, six
Brazilian fighter jets chased
more than a dozen UFOs.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> The Ministry of the Air
Force confirms this encounter
in a press conference.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> She got to meet
Carlos de Souza in 1996.
And he was the man
who saw the UFO crash?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Going back to 1996 and
seeing the witnesses and seeing
the location of the
creatures, seeing the original
illustration, the rendition of
what the creature looked like
from 1996 and holding it in my
hands, it was just fascinating.
And the photograph
of the military man,
Marco Chereze, who apparently
handled one of the creatures.
I mean, it just takes
you back in time to 1996.
And it was just a really, really
fortunate opportunity for us.
I'm thrilled.
And I can't wait to get to
Varginha to be honest with you.
You could just say,
hypothetically for a moment,
if it did happen, how
significant of an event
would it be?
I bet you that
everyone would say
there's nothing more
significant than this story
if it were true.
I just ask people
to suspend judgment,
listen to the testimony, and
then draw your own conclusions.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hey, we're just going to
drop me off or something,
get some drinks, while they
go around the block or wait.
>> Upon arrival in Varginha,
the filmmakers want to hear from
locals regarding the
alleged 1996 UFO crash.
A large monument in the
shape of a flying saucer
is a clear indication that
the town embraces the story.
Armed with handmade
signs that read,
if anyone knows what happened
in 1996, please talk to us,
the team takes to the streets.
>> What did you
think about the case?
Does he think it happened
or it didn't happen?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> What are your
feelings on Varginha?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> The 1996 Varginha UFO
incident, what do you think?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Things are heating
up right now, guys.
We're finding some witnesses.
This is working.
>> Guys, this is
really important.
>> OK.
Let's bring it.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> They see a UFO.
The UFO gets closer
to them, to the point
where it's at the height
of that streetlight.
OK, so then what happens?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So a lot of people in
this town have a little piece
of the puzzle.
We were only here for
an hour and a half,
and I can't believe how many
people we got to come forward.
What I love about this
case is it's recent enough
where people either heard
accounts or experienced
things themselves.
So right now, we
are going to meet
with the mayor of Varginha.
So I'm very curious if
an elected official will
talk about the
details of the case
and whether he believes
it really happened.
>> Yeah.
>> These sorts of things.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Water?
>> Look at this.
>> Oh, that's nice.
>> That's great.
>> Yeah.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> I'm extremely curious.
As an elected official,
the mayor of Varginha,
does he believe that this case
happened as the witnesses are
reporting it to have happened?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The witnesses in Varginha
for me are some of the most
compelling testimony
I've ever heard.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> So I didn't believe that
a UFO crashed in Varginha,
Brazil, when I first came here.
But after 10 years,
I've been here--
I wouldn't have imagined
getting an interview
with an elected official
like the mayor of Varginha.
If you would have told me I'd
be doing that 10 years ago, I
wouldn't have believed it.
Not only that, but
he was basically
saying that he felt that
the Varginha case was true.
That it really happened.
I think we have to remind
ourselves how far we've
come in the last decade.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Put me on that farm
in January of 1996.
What happened?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> 1996, crash witness,
Carlos de Souza,
describes a similar object
in this exclusive interview.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> January 13, 1996, Carlos
de Souza is traveling from Sao
Paulo to Minas Gerais early in
the morning planning to meet
with friends to fly
ultralight planes.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Now 26 years, later the team
travels with Carlos de Souza
to find the crash site.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Turn around.
Right.
Careful of the dust.
He's trying to remember.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> So where the trees were.
>> He doesn't remember.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Is this looking familiar?
There's a house up there.
But if it's close to
a house, then it's
got to be further down this way.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Unless the house is gone.
>> I think the house is gone.
>> You do?
>> Yeah.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> I mean, I could.
>> He's asking you to stop.
>> Stop.
>> Please.
>> All right.
Let's go.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> What does that mean?
>> Yeah, like a bit grass.
It was around here.
OK.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> He wants to go there.
>> OK.
OK.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> So it was a white house
and it was a small house?
>> Yeah, it was a small house.
And the grass was burned.
>> The grass was burned.
Why was the grass burned?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> So is the house gone?
>> It was around here.
>> So the house is gone?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> I mean, it could be
here or it could be there.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> We walk over
to there and look.
If it's close to the road, it
only can be in a couple places.
Does he want to
walk up closer to--
he said the house was close
to where the crash was?
>> Yeah.
>> 200m.
>> Yeah, it's like--
>> 600 feet.
>> Maiolini house family.
Maiolini family.
>> Well, I say we
take a closer look.
I mean, you know.
>> But he's not--
>> Yeah, we got to do it, man.
We got to find this spot.
>> There's a lot of trees.
>> Is there a house down there?
>> Yeah, there's a house.
>> Right down
through these trees.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, let's get
closer to there then.
Let's drive down the road.
Let's drive down to get closer.
There's a house.
This is a field.
>> Yes.
Yes.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Wow.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> This is the spot.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Was this object big enough to
have potentially beings inside?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> According to Mr. Souza, this
area was covered with debris
from the UFO crash.
This is his first time at
the crash site since 1996.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> So he gets out of the
car, he sees the piece.
He picks the piece
up, he folds it.
He said it was
really light and it
was shaped kind of like this.
>> Yeah.
>> And then he picks it up and
he folds it in, and it opens
itself up.
And it was really
light, like all of them.
At what point did the
military come to him?
Right after that happened?
>> Yes.
>> The military came from
this way and arrived?
>> Yeah.
Carlos de Souza came from here.
And the trucks came
from that side.
>> OK.
>> Within minutes, trucks from
the military base ESA arrive
on the scene.
>> Go away.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> I think some guy.
>> What does borra mean?
>> Go away.
Go away.
>> Go away?
>> Go away.
Go away.
>> And I'm ordering you.
>> I'm ordering you to go away?
>> Yeah.
>> So then he pulled
his gun out and said,
I'm ordering you to go away?
>> Oh, OK.
OK.
>> Wow.
>> OK.
OK.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> After giving this interview
shortly after the incident,
Carlos de Souza
vanishes for 26 years.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Can we just walk to
exactly where this took place?
>> Seven days after Souza
witnessed the crash,
Hubert Ladera leaves this gym
when he and several friends see
two military trucks
driving into town.
They follow them
through the neighborhood
and come upon a
military blockade.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> One of the people
in his group said,
this is a free country
and I'm going through.
>> It was him.
>> It was him?
>> Yeah.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> So he said, hey,
this is a free country.
I'll do what I want.
And then what happens?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> This is the local TV news
station that covered the case
back in 1996.
He was deeply involved.
He was also good friends
with Marco Chereze, who's
the military police officer who
allegedly handled the creature
and then died.
>> Thank you.
>> Yes, of course.
Absolutely.
Describe what happened back
in 1996, what you witnessed,
what you saw.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> So is he saying that the
military shut down the press?
>> Yes.
>> Successfully?
>> They don't have a free press?
>> And they say--
>> No.
They say, if they would
have go investigate further,
they probably would
have put them in jail.
>> OK.
I'll quickly mention.
So we have special authorization
from the city of Varginha
and we have a universal
key which is provided to us
by I think Katia's husband.
And so we're going to film
the use of this special key
to gain access to
the exact location
where the encounter occurred
back in January of 1996.
Action.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> There we go.
>> You see how easy that was?
[LAUGHING]
>> I wanted to film here
because this is obviously going
to invoke memories
of the encounter.
And I think that we're going to
get a more dramatic, more real,
on-camera testimony from the
girls doing it here as opposed
to somewhere else.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Media across Brazil and
the world cover the story.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Walk us through
what happened.
What did you see?
Where did you see it?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> 1996, based on
the girl's testimony,
artist Betty Rodriguez
creates this drawing.
>> What I find makes their story
so credible that there were
three of them.
I want to hear from Valquiria
because she was the youngest.
What were her
thoughts at the time?
Was she scared?
Did you run?
Put me there.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> These eyes compared to
my eyes, how much bigger?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Three times bigger.
>> I want to walk over by the
wall and I want you to tell me
where exactly the creature was.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Wow.
>> Really close.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> I didn't realize.
That's closer than I expected.
It's like eight feet away.
They were eight feet away from
this creature broad daylight.
It was 3:30 in the afternoon.
This is the exact location.
When she made eye contact
with this creature,
was there a moment of any
kind of communication?
Did she feel anything at all?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> OK.
So this is Valquiria, this is
Katia, and this is Liliane.
You see the eyes.
They didn't draw a nose.
They didn't draw a mouth.
It was all about the eyes.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> I want to understand,
first of all,
the moment of contact with
the eyes, meaning the eyes.
I really want to be there.
I want to feel it.
When they locked eyes with this
being, what were they thinking.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> They all ran out
of here quickly.
So they were scared.
Were they scared because
they felt threatened?
Or were they scared
because they just simply
didn't know what
they were looking at?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> So the three girls run
to her house and they say,
we saw this creature who might
have been the devil or whatever
it was?
And do they do they get
in the car and drive here?
Do they walk here?
How do they get here?
And what do they see
when they got here?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Can she draw the footprint,
the shape of the footprint?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Here.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> That's the exact location
where the girl saw the creature
right through that wall where we
filmed already with the girls.
I didn't realize that Marco
Chereze, the military officer
who allegedly captured the
creature with his bare hands,
did it right over here.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Roughly three hours after
the girls witnessed the strange
creature, military police
officers Eric Lopes and Marco
Chereze drive down this road
on the lookout for something
unusual.
When suddenly, it runs
right across their path.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> It was captured by Marco
Chereze with his bare hands
easily and taken into hospital.
After he captured
the creature, he
was smelling the creature
in his body and his clothes.
Because he had this
strange feeling
of something greasy,
sticky, over his body
that came from the creature.
He developed this infection
that wouldn't go away.
And for two or three
weeks, it was getting
worse and worse and worse.
And it looks like that his
immunity system was shut down.
These were the words used by one
of the doctors who treated him,
who said, that he never saw
in his whole medical career
anything like that.
And that infection killed him.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> All the witnesses that claim
that Marco Chereze handled
a creature, a strange creature.
Doesn't have to be
from another world.
It was a strange creature.
He gets some unknown infection.
You did everything you could
to save him and he died.
Do you believe that there's
some credibility to that story?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> When her brother falls ill,
she asks about his involvement
with the case.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> On February 10th, Marcos
Chereze is admitted to regional
hospital.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Roger, what's the main
purpose that you go to Varginha
for a neurological research?
>> The main purpose for being
here is to look at the physical
evidence aspect of this case,
which is what I specialize in.
It is June the 7th, 2002.
And I'm here in
Varginha, Brazil,
with the chief investigator on
the Varginha episode, Ubirajara
Rodrigues.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> 2002, renowned UFO
researcher, Dr. Roger Leir,
travels to Varginha to
investigate the case.
He documents multiple
key witnesses on video.
This footage has
never been released.
>> She is the wife of a deceased
member of the military police.
I think we should at least know
what her husband's name was?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Did she know of anyone
has seen a medical report?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Well, they took a
long time to deliver it.
And they asked for money.
And there were missing pages.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Sure.
When she looks and she
searched for an explanation,
but nobody would give any.
>> Was Marco Chereze the only
person infected who died?
We don't know.
Were these two
creatures the only ones
that remain alive
after the crash?
We don't know.
We only have very
detailed information
about the existence and
the capture of these two,
one captured in the
morning and one at evening
of the same day, January 1996.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> According to
credible reports,
there were two captures
on January 20th hours.
Hours before the girls
encounter, the fire brigade
captured a being.
This capture was
thoroughly investigated
by leading Brazilian
researcher and lawyer,
Ubirajara Rodrigues.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> This is the fire
department that responded.
>> Dr. Leir teamed
up with Ubirajara.
They questioned the fire
battalion allegedly involved
in the capture of
the first creature.
>> This is the creature.
And this is the
kind of equipment
that is used to catch it.
>> The fire department was
dispatched to this location
after receiving several calls
from concerned residents who
reported seeing something
strange in the area.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> The army truck entered
by this gate here,
got in over here.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Got the creature
already dead from inside.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> The presence of several
elements from the military
police, from the army, and
several doctors and nurses.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> This convoy left the place
and went to Tres Coracoes.
>> Both creatures
left at the same time?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> And the creature that was
alive got to Campinas alive.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The team drives to meet with
a family who saw a UFO hovering
over the area of the
encounter and capture.
>> OK, let me ask.
Let me ask.
How about we film the back
of their heads talking to me?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Hey, Fernanda.
We have two options.
One, we blur his faces.
No problem.
And we will do that.
Two, we film from the
back side and their faces
aren't seen ever.
Like doctors, and they all saw
the UFO right over this area.
It looked like they were
looking for something, like it
was doing a grid search.
And this is a very
respectable family.
They don't want their
faces on camera.
They want to talk and
tell what they saw,
but they don't want
their faces revealed
on camera, which happens.
OK.
So we're standing in
very near the area where
the girl saw the creature.
It was 1996, January.
This entire family saw something
they want to share with us,
but they don't want to
have their faces revealed.
So what did they see?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Did I hear--
I heard americano.
He said American?
>> Yes.
>> What was that about?
Some American
officials came here
to talk about what they saw?
Americans?
Were they military?
Were they police?
Who were they?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Is there any way that there
is a conventional explanation
to what they saw?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> I just want to go over that
interview and what I find.
First of all, they hesitated
on whether or not they even
wanted to go on camera.
They canceled yesterday.
Today, they were
like, we don't want--
sorry, bus coming.
We don't want our
faces on camera.
It was like an entire family.
And they all saw this object.
And it was really big, shaped
like a disk, zero noise.
You have witnesses like that.
They're friends of
the doctor, the guy
that we rent the house from.
That you could just
tell they'd been sitting
on that story for 26 years.
How excited he was
to finally share it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> There was unusual
activity at the base.
There were helicopters
from the Navy,
which in itself was unusual.
He sees a box.
Was the box unusual?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> So to this day, has he
spoken to any of them that went
to Varginha?
>> No.
No
>> Nothing.
>> Yeah.
>> According to the witness,
it wasn't only the drivers who
were never seen again.
Their captain, Edson Ramirez,
also left without a word.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> January 1996, a radiologist
has an unexpected visit
by the military while on
duty at regional hospital.
He agrees to share
his story, provided
his identity remains concealed.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> So we have a big military
presence on the outside
of the hospital.
We got two army and two police
on the inside of the hospital
with a box and something
inside of a black zip body bag.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> What did it smell like?
>> When they took whatever it
was in that black bag and they
left the hospital, the military
and the, police with that bag
and that thing, did
the smell leave?
[SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Three of the most strange,
bizarre points of this
encounter.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Probably about 10 months
ago, Marco managed to reach
a vetted, legitimate
witness who was involved
in the transportation of the--
they call them ET or the being.
This guy was so scared.
Marco spent, I think,
8 to 10 months slowly
developing a relationship
with this guy.
And about four
days ago, he agreed
to meet with me and
Marco, just the two of us.
So we drove late into the night.
We met him at a bar.
When we arrived, he
was with another guy.
He took us to a
different location.
We sat outside and we
talked for a couple of hours
about coming forward,
appearing in the documentary.
I've never ever
had the opportunity
to interview a witness
that potentially handled
an extraterrestrial being.
I worry about the
military getting
wind of what's going on
because they're clearly paying
attention to this witness.
I'm worried about them
getting a phone call,
reminding him of
his oath to secrecy.
I don't want to put someone
else's family in harm's way.
So you always, in
the back of your mind
in a situation like this,
you know that at any moment,
the carpet can get pulled
out from under you,
and then it's not a done
deal until it's a done deal.
That's it I wonder if we
should rent a hotel room
and then have him come
to us because then we
can get all the gear
inside the hotel room
and then he can just
show up and walk in.
>> We can't stop
at a gas station.
>> Marco coordinates with the
witness Military X to secure
a safe meeting location.
>> Yes, I made an appointment
with him in some hotel right
here close to here.
And so I think we
have to drove--
>> We get to the hotel first.
>> Yeah, we go--
>> We check in, and
then he just walks in.
>> Exactly.
Yeah, let's go.
>> You got it.
>> I feel that anxiety
in my stomach, you know?
It's just like--
we pull this off,
and it's just like first time.
It'll be the most compelling
testimony ever revealed
on the history of this case.
Oh, my fucking god,
it feels so steep.
>> I know.
Entrada.
This is the hotel?
I would get a quick shot of it,
and I'd shut these cameras off
right now.
Can you guys do that?
Shut everything off.
Guys.
>> Yeah.
>> Where are you?
>> Right here.
>> Where?
>> It must be here.
Fuck, this room is small.
>> This is where-- you can't
even use these cameras in here.
>> Oh, god!
OK.
>> He's trying to find
a room with two beds.
He better-- yeah.
>> Mark it.
Good.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Hey.
Anytime
>> OK.
So we are sitting here with
Military X, who clearly
doesn't want his
identity revealed,
which we're not going to do.
And he's going to provide
enough detail, not too much,
but enough detail on
operations that he was involved
with the Varginha case.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> When he was in Humanitas,
this is where he saw part
of the creature.
>> Yes.
>> What was the atmosphere like?
What were the looks on the
faces of the other people
in the room?
>> Yeah.
>> What was it like?
Can he put me in that room?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> When he looked and he saw
the leg or part of the leg
and the foot with the
V, what did he think?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> ESA military base is roughly
20 miles Southeast of Varginha.
According to witnesses,
the army operations
originated from here.
>> Is there filmed footage,
video footage of the creature
that he knows about?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Military X says that
on January 22, 1996,
he drove the creature from
Humanitas Hospital in Varginha
to ESA army base where it
would remain overnight.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Does he have any idea
where the creature went?
Because it went
to Regionas, then
Humanitas then
ESA then Campinas.
And then what happened?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> According to Military X,
he transported a creature from
Humanitas Hospital in Varginha
to ESA military base in Tres
Coracoes where it
stayed for the night.
Early the following
morning, the convoy
continued their, mission
heading South on Fernao Dias
freeway then West on Don
Pedro to Espcex army base
in the city of Campinas.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> --the Brazilian Air Force.
>> The team meets with Brazilian
Air Force traffic control
officer Jose Manuel Fernandez.
His unit was responsible for
monitoring specific airspace
over the state of Sao Paulo.
>> Do you know anything
about this case?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
that USAF lands in Campinas.
[SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Was it Americans involved
or was it just the Brazilians
involved?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> And how does he know that
the Americans were involved?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Has anybody seen Eric Lopes?
Has anyone ever
tried to talk to him.
>> People try to reach him.
>> People have tried.
>> Yeah.
>> And nada?
>> With the help of
Varginha Mayor Verdi,
the team connects
with Mr. da Costa,
a military police
corporal in 1996.
His son, Romulo Ribeiro
agrees to escort them
to the home of Eric Lopes.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Are you kidding me.
>> Let's go up carefully.
>> Eric Lopes is the military
police officer from P2 who
reportedly drove the car during
the second capture with Marco
Chereze.
Not even the family of
the deceased officer
has been able to get a
statement from Lopes.
If the reports are true, he
is the only living witness
of the second capture.
Officer Lopes has been
unreachable for 26 years.
>> Oh, my god.
I'll go with him.
I'm going with him.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Tell them that the
mayor has blessed us.
Tell him the mayor said--
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> He's-- he's--
no.
He's saying he's
going to get trouble.
>> This is Eric Lopes.
Let me just-- hold on.
Please, let me ask a question.
Please.
Pregunta, por favor.
>> He's friend, all his friends.
>> OK.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Hold on.
Hold on.
Just ask him one
question for me.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Will he ever come forward
and make a statement?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> What's happening.
>> This is the
house of Eric Lopes.
>> Yeah.
>> But he doesn't like to talk.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> And the threat is
that they might shoot us
because we're on the
property trespassing.
They're talking right now.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> So Eric won't talk.
>> No.
>> What just happened.
What happened?
Is that Eric Lopes?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE].
>> Who is that?
>> Yeah, Eric Lopes.
>> That's Eric Lopes!
>> He doesn't want
to talk at all.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
Let's go.
>> Oh, my god!
That was Eric.
Just saw him.
OK.
We'll go talk.
Did you get him?
Dave, did you get him?
Please, tell me you got him.
>> That was Eric Lopes!
Fucking God.
>> You get him in the window?
>> Yeah.
Oh, my shit.
>> On the window the whole time?
>> Oh, god.
>> You got him.
>> He's here.
And he say we shot if
you don't leave here.
>> He will shoot you?
>> Yeah.
>> Fuck!
>> If that guy had
nothing to hide,
he would have just said so.
That guy was driving the car.
Yeah that Marco Chereze was in.
>> Right, what we just did.
I thought the interview
yesterday was pretty good.
>> For what?
>> No.
Right now was pretty gnarly.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Ask him if we can talk
about what we just did.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE].
>> OK.
OK.
Which way did he go?
>> To the left.
>> We're stopping here?
OK.
God, is this-- so what
exactly did he say?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> And he believed that
Eric Lopes was serious.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Thank you.
>> If his story is true, he
is walking around with a level
of confirmation that only
a handful of people on this
planet have.
What does that feel like?
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> May 8, 1996.
With mounting pressure
from media and witnesses,
the military base, ESA
holds a press conference.
General Lima
addresses the crowd.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> The accumulation of aspects--
the girls who saw something,
the other people in the town
who saw something.
This wasn't an
isolated event where
you got one witness saying, oh,
I saw something extraordinary.
Not at all.
it seemed to be
relatively naive,
young girls and there were
fire department people involved
who saw the beings too.
And one nice thing about it
is it takes the onus away
from saying, things only
happen in the United States.
Well, there was the
United States involvement.
And it wouldn't
surprise me if they
paid to pick up the wreckage
and all the rest of the stuff.
Why not?
Make sense.
Cheap way to get information.
Let the other guy do the work.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> I believe that the Varginha
case is much more important
today because it is more recent
and some of the events have not
unfolded yet.
>> Did she have any
connection with the eyes?
Did she make any like
fear as she saw eye
to eye with this being.
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Were there live aliens
seen walking around this town?
>> I have deal with this case
in 1996 because I have some
friends from there he told that,
Oh you don't know what is true
but I know what I saw.
>> Oh, yes,
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Weight off his
shoulders, Yeah.
>> God, I just wonder like what
they said to these witnesses
that 25 years later, they still
don't want to talk about it
on camera at all.
It's like unbelievable.
It's like you offer
them even compensation,
they still won't do it.
>> I know.
It's like money doesnt--
Well they won't
do it it's weird.
>> The reason why they
haven't made overt contacts is
because we're so aggressive.
[LAUGHS]
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]
>> Come on.
>> Would that smell
make a good perfume?
[LAUGHTER]
>> [SPEAKING PORTUGUESE]